docs: Document the Projects feature (7.2) (#835)
mautic/user-documentation: docs/projects/projects-overview.rst

Reviewer: We also need to add a section about editing a Project.

There are two ways:

From the Project dashboard.

1. Click the three-dots icon next to the Project you want to edit.
2. Click **Edit**. This opens the Edit Project page.
3. Edit the Project and click **Save** or **Save & Close** button to save it.

Image to use: 

<img width="2033" height="871" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/4881aead-64ad-42ff-9db3-7222c9b38a66" />

By clicking the Project name:

1. Click the Project name you want to edit. This opens the Project detail page.
2. Click the **Edit** button at the top to open the Edit Project page.
3. Edit the Project and click **Save** or **Save & Close** button to save it.

Image to use:

<img width="2003" height="822" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/fa30227e-0db8-4164-acf0-21292d4bceca" />

Give as well a brief opening sentence.

.. vale off

Projects
########

.. vale on

.. vale off

Projects overview
*****************

> .. vale on

Reviewer: We can remove this header.

Projects give you one place to group everything that belongs to a single marketing initiative. Instead of hunting for the Campaigns, Emails, Segments, and other items behind a launch, you assign them all to a Project and manage them together. A Project works like a folder that spans item types, so you can see how the pieces of an initiative fit together and find related items quickly.

> 

Reviewer: Add this image:

<img width="1183" height="575" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/170ca6c7-6b17-4a75-84e6-2ac6f5312d16" />

- Use underscore to split between words for the image name.
- Provide a descriptive alt text. Don't start with "Screenshot of" or something alike.

You can assign many item types to a Project, including Asset, Campaign, Company, Dynamic Content, Email, Focus Item, Form, Landing Page, Marketing Message, Point, Point Trigger, Segment, Stage, and Text message.

.. vale off

Managing Projects
*****************

.. vale on

To open the Projects list, select Projects in the left main menu. From here, you can create a new Project, open an existing one, and delete Projects you no longer need. The list shows each Project along with the number of items assigned to it.

.. vale off

Creating Projects
=================

.. vale on

> **To create a Project:**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create a Project:
```

* Select **New**.
* Give it a name and an optional description.

> 

Reviewer: Add this image:

<img width="1183" height="578" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/eb74c631-813f-4321-ad24-765689ba4514" />

- Use underscore to split between words for the image name.
- Provide a descriptive alt text. Don't start with "Screenshot of" or something alike.

Each Project name must be unique. If you enter a name that's already in use, Mautic displays 'A project with this name already exists.' and asks you to choose another.

.. vale off

Deleting Projects
=================

.. vale on

> **To delete one or more Projects:**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To delete one or more Projects:
```

* Select the checkbox of the Projects you want to delete. Selecting a checkbox automatically opens a blue banner on top of the table.
* Click **Delete selected**.

> 

Reviewer: Add this image:

<img width="2025" height="1022" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/0c8c3720-5cf4-4454-b613-38a48053a266" />

- Use underscore to split between words for the image name.
- Provide a descriptive alt text. Don't start with "Screenshot of" or something alike.

Deleting a Project removes the references to it from every assigned item, but it doesn't delete the items themselves.

.. vale off

Assigning items to a Project
============================

.. vale on

There are two ways to assign items to a Project.

* **From the item** - When you create or edit a supported item, such as an Email or a Campaign, use the Projects field to assign it to one or more Projects. If you have permission to create Projects, you can also type a new name in this field and select **Hit enter to create** to make a new Project on the spot.

> 

Reviewer: Add this image:

<img width="2526" height="1273" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/f219e875-4d27-46c3-bd17-27c5ad6c2649" />

- Use underscore to split between words for the image name.
- Provide a descriptive alt text. Don't start with "Screenshot of" or something alike.

* **From the Project**:

  #. Open a Project and select **Add Entities to Project**.
  #. Choose the type of item you want to add.
  #. Select the item you want to add to the Project.

.. vale off

Deleting items from Projects
============================

.. vale on

To delete an item from a Project:

* Click the three-dots icon next to the entity you want to remove to open the Options menu.

> * Click the **Remove from project** button.

Reviewer: Add this image between point 1 and 2.

<img width="2056" height="936" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/e5eb7bfa-bd3f-4a74-8962-2ac11d428c27" />

- Use underscore to split between words for the image name.
- Provide a descriptive alt text. Don't start with "Screenshot of" or something alike.

.. vale off

Projects
########

.. vale on

Projects give you one place to group everything that belongs to a single marketing initiative. Instead of hunting for the Campaigns, Emails, Segments, and other items behind a launch, you assign them all to a Project and manage them together. A Project works like a folder that spans item types, so you can see how the pieces of an initiative fit together and find related items quickly.

.. image:: images/projects_list_view.png
   :align: center

>    :alt: Projects list showing the New button and the Projects item in the left menu

Reviewer: Move this image at the end of "Managing Projects" section.

You can assign many item types to a Project, including Asset, Campaign, Company, Dynamic Content, Email, Focus Item, Form, Landing Page, Marketing Message, Point, Point Trigger, Segment, Stage, and Text message.

.. vale off

Managing Projects
*****************

.. vale on

To open the Projects list, select Projects in the left main menu. From here, you can create a new Project, open an existing one, and delete Projects you no longer need. The list shows each Project along with the number of items assigned to it.

.. vale off

Creating Projects
=================

.. vale on

To create a Project:

* Select **New**.

> * Give it a name and an optional description.
> 
> .. image:: images/create_new_project_form.png
>    :align: center
>    :alt: Create new Project screen with Name and Description fields
> 
> Each Project name must be unique. If you enter a name that's already in use, Mautic displays 'A project with this name already exists.' and asks you to choose another.

Reviewer: Add a space between image and paragraph.

```suggestion
.. image:: images/create_new_project_form.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Create new Project screen with Name and Description fields
   
|

Each Project name must be unique. If you enter a name that's already in use, Mautic displays 'A project with this name already exists.' and asks you to choose another.
```

.. vale off

Deleting Projects
=================

.. vale on

To delete one or more Projects:

* Select the checkbox of the Projects you want to delete. Selecting a checkbox automatically opens a blue banner on top of the table.
* Click **Delete selected**.

> 

Reviewer: Add this image:

<img width="2050" height="981" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/4c1bda46-ecf5-4773-9446-de58873a7b12" />

- Use underscore between words when naming the image.
- Provide descriptive alt text. Don't start with "Screenshot of" or anything alike.
- Add space between texts with `|`.

Deleting a Project removes the references to it from every assigned item, but it doesn't delete the items themselves.

.. vale off

Assigning items to a Project
============================

.. vale on

There are two ways to assign items to a Project.

* **From the item** - When you create or edit a supported item, such as an Email or a Campaign, use the Projects field to assign it to one or more Projects. If you have permission to create Projects, you can also type a new name in this field and select **Hit enter to create** to make a new Project on the spot.

.. image:: images/assign_project_from_email.png
   :align: center

>    :alt: Email edit view with the Projects field used to assign the Email to a Project

Reviewer: Give proper inderntation to the image as it's belong to the unordered list.

```suggestion
* **From the item** - When you create or edit a supported item, such as an Email or a Campaign, use the Projects field to assign it to one or more Projects. If you have permission to create Projects, you can also type a new name in this field and select **Hit enter to create** to make a new Project on the spot.

  .. image:: images/assign_project_from_email.png
     :align: center
     :alt: Email edit view with the Projects field used to assign the Email to a Project
     
  |
```

* **From the Project**:

  #. Open a Project and select **Add Entities to Project**.

     .. image:: images/add_entities_to_project_button.png
        :align: center
        :alt: Project detail view highlighting the Add Entities to Project button

  #. Choose the type of item you want to add.
  #. Select the item you want to add to the Project.

.. vale off

Deleting items from Projects
============================

.. vale on

To delete an item from a Project:

* Click the three-dots icon next to the entity you want to remove to open the Options menu.
* Click the **Remove from project** button.
* Confirm the removal.

.. image:: images/remove_item_from_project.png
   :align: center

>    :alt: Options menu on a Project item showing the Remove from project action

Reviewer: Give space with the next section.

```suggestion
.. image:: images/remove_item_from_project.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Options menu on a Project item showing the Remove from project action
   
|
```

.. vale off

Deleting Projects
=================

.. vale on

To delete one or more Projects:

* Select the checkbox of the Projects you want to delete. Selecting a checkbox automatically opens a blue banner on top of the table.
* Click **Delete selected**.

.. image:: images/delete_selected_projects.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Projects list with two Projects selected and the Delete selected banner

|

Deleting a Project removes the references to it from every assigned item, but it doesn't delete the items themselves.

.. vale off

Assigning items to a Project
============================

.. vale on

There are two ways to assign items to a Project.

* **From the item** - When you create or edit a supported item, such as an Email or a Campaign, use the Projects field to assign it to one or more Projects. If you have permission to create Projects, you can also type a new name in this field and select **Hit enter to create** to make a new Project on the spot.

  .. image:: images/assign_project_from_email.png
     :align: center
     :alt: Email edit view with the Projects field used to assign the Email to a Project

>   |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  |

  .. image:: images/assign_project_from_email.png
     :align: center
     :alt: Email edit view with the Projects field used to assign the Email to a Project

  |
```

* **From the Project**:

  #. Open a Project and select **Add Entities to Project**.

     .. image:: images/add_entities_to_project_button.png
        :align: center
        :alt: Project detail view highlighting the Add Entities to Project button

>   #. Choose the type of item you want to add.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  #. Open a Project and select **Add Entities to Project**.
  
     |

     .. image:: images/add_entities_to_project_button.png
        :align: center
        :alt: Project detail view highlighting the Add Entities to Project button
        
     |

  #. Choose the type of item you want to add.
```

  #. Select the item you want to add to the Project.

.. vale off

Deleting items from Projects
============================

.. vale on

To delete an item from a Project:

> * Click the three-dots icon next to the entity you want to remove to open the Options menu.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Click the three-dots icon next to the item you want to remove to open the Options menu.
```

* Click the **Remove from project** button.
* Confirm the removal.

.. image:: images/remove_item_from_project.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Options menu on a Project item showing the Remove from project action

|

.. vale off

Finding items by Project
========================

.. vale on

> Use the ``project`` search command to filter any supported list down to the items in a Project. In the search box, enter ``project:name`` to show only the items assigned to that Project. For example, ``project:"Summer Launch"`` returns every item assigned to the 'Summer Launch' Project.

Reviewer: I tried this out. This is not completely correct. This instruction gave me "No Result Found". Please investigate the codebase thoroughly.

There's another way to see which items using the Project by clicking the entity label in the "# Entities" column. Confirm this as well from the codebase.

.. vale off

Permissions
***********

.. vale on

> Projects use their own permission set, which you can grant per Role under the **Project permissions** section. Alongside the standard View, Edit, Create, Delete, and Full permissions, there's a separate **Associate with other entities** permission that controls whether a User can attach items to and detach items from Projects. A User needs this permission to use the Projects field on an item or the add and remove actions on a Project.

Reviewer: Add info where to find Roles. If we have a section about creating or managing Roles, link it here.

  |

  .. image:: images/assign_project_from_email.png
     :align: center
     :alt: Email edit view with the Projects field used to assign the Email to a Project

  |

* **From the Project**:

  #. Open a Project and select **Add Entities to Project**.

     |

     .. image:: images/add_entities_to_project_button.png
        :align: center
        :alt: Project detail view highlighting the Add Entities to Project button

     |

  #. Choose the type of item you want to add.
  #. Select the item you want to add to the Project.

.. vale off

Deleting items from Projects
============================

.. vale on

To delete an item from a Project:

* Click the three-dots icon next to the item you want to remove to open the Options menu.
* Click the **Remove from project** button.
* Confirm the removal.

.. image:: images/remove_item_from_project.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Options menu on a Project item showing the Remove from project action

|

.. vale off

Finding items by Project
========================

.. vale on

There are two ways to see which items belong to a Project.

> The most reliable way is from the Projects list. In the '# Entities' column, select the count next to a Project to open its detail view, where Mautic lists every assigned item grouped by type. From this view, you can also remove items or add new ones.

Reviewer: Add this image at the end of the section:

<img width="2043" height="772" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/88974972-f64e-467a-8db2-da1b10365074" />

Use the same rules as previous prompts.

> You can also use the ``project`` search command on supported list views. In the search box, enter ``project:name`` to show only the items assigned to that Project. For example, ``project:"Summer Launch"`` returns every item assigned to the 'Summer Launch' Project. The command matches the Project name exactly, including capitalization, so a value that doesn't match a Project name returns 'No Result Found'. This command is available on the Emails, Campaigns, Segments, Forms, Landing Pages, Assets, Text messages, Marketing Messages, Companies, Points, Point Triggers, Stages, Dynamic Content, and Focus Items lists. It isn't available on the Contacts list.

Reviewer: Now I see. There are a few things I want to point out:

- The 2nd paragraph is super technical (I guess it's developer facing terms) and it's not user facing (not how it works on UI). There's no command to be included in the process.
- To find entities in a Project: 1) Click the project name OR 2) Click the "X entities" label next to the project name in the "# Entities" column. It opens a page where user can see the list of entities used in the project.
- Search bar is super handy if users have many Projects. And the way it works: 1) Type the name of the project. (This is not case sensitive as you mentioned) 2) Hit enter 3) Click the project name or the entities label.

.. vale off

Permissions
***********

.. vale on

> Projects use their own permission set, which you can grant per Role. To configure these permissions, go to **Settings** > **Roles**, open or create a Role, and find the **Project permissions** section. Alongside the standard View, Edit, Create, Delete, and Full permissions, there's a separate **Associate with other entities** permission that controls whether a User can attach items to and detach items from Projects. A User needs this permission to use the Projects field on an item or the add and remove actions on a Project.

Reviewer: Use unordered list for the instructions for clarity.

########

.. vale on

Projects give you one place to group everything that belongs to a single marketing initiative. Instead of hunting for the Campaigns, Emails, Segments, and other entities behind a launch, you assign them all to a Project and manage them together. A Project works like a folder that spans entity types, so you can see how the pieces of an initiative fit together and find related entities quickly.

You can assign many entity types to a Project, including Asset, Campaign, Company, Dynamic Content, Email, Focus Item, Form, Landing Page, Marketing Message, Point, Point Trigger, Segment, Stage, and Text message.

.. vale off

Managing Projects
*****************

.. vale on

To open the Projects list, select Projects in the left main menu. From here, you can create a new Project, open an existing one, and delete Projects you no longer need. The list shows each Project along with the number of entities assigned to it.

.. image:: images/projects_list_view.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Projects list showing the New button and the Projects entry in the left menu

|

.. vale off

Creating Projects
=================

.. vale on

To create a Project:

* Select **New**.

> * Give it a name and an optional description.

Reviewer: Use ordered list for instructions that need to follow particular steps.

```suggestion
#. Select **New**.
#. Give it a name and an optional description.
```

.. image:: images/create_new_project_form.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Create new Project screen with Name and Description fields

|

Each Project name must be unique. If you enter a name that's already in use, Mautic displays 'A project with this name already exists.' and asks you to choose another.

.. vale off

Deleting Projects
=================

.. vale on

> 

Reviewer: There's another way to delete a single Project:

1. Click the three-dots icon next to the Project you want to delete.
2. Select **Delete**.
3. Confirm the deletion.

Here's the image:

<img width="2035" height="849" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/e49985be-6c22-43fd-812c-bfc3abc2d647" />

To delete one or more Projects:

* Select the checkbox of the Projects you want to delete. Selecting a checkbox automatically opens a blue banner on top of the table.

> * Click **Delete selected**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Select the checkbox of the Projects you want to delete. Selecting a checkbox automatically opens a blue banner on top of the table.
#. Click **Delete selected**.
#. Confirm the deletion.
```

.. image:: images/delete_selected_projects.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Projects list with two Projects selected and the Delete selected banner

|

Deleting a Project removes the references to it from every assigned entity, but it doesn't delete the entities themselves.

.. vale off

Assigning entities to a Project
===============================

.. vale on

There are two ways to assign entities to a Project.

* **From the entity** - When you create or edit a supported entity, such as an Email or a Campaign, use the Projects field to assign it to one or more Projects. If you have permission to create Projects, you can also type a new name in this field and select **Hit enter to create** to make a new Project on the spot.

  |

  .. image:: images/assign_project_from_email.png
     :align: center
     :alt: Email edit view with the Projects field used to assign the Email to a Project

>   |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. **From the entity** - When you create or edit a supported entity, such as an Email or a Campaign, use the Projects field to assign it to one or more Projects. If you have permission to create Projects, you can also type a new name in this field and select **Hit enter to create** to make a new Project on the spot.

   |

   .. image:: images/assign_project_from_email.png
      :align: center
      :alt: Email edit view with the Projects field used to assign the Email to a Project

   |
```

* **From the Project**:

  * Open a Project and select **Add Entities to Project**.

    |

    .. image:: images/add_entities_to_project_button.png
       :align: center
       :alt: Project detail view highlighting the Add Entities to Project button

    |

  * Choose the type of entity you want to add.

>   * Select the entity you want to add to the Project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. **From the Project**:

  #. Open a Project and select **Add Entities to Project**.

     |

     .. image:: images/add_entities_to_project_button.png
        :align: center
        :alt: Project detail view highlighting the Add Entities to Project button

     |

  #. Choose the type of entity you want to add.
  #. Select the entity you want to add to the Project.
```

.. vale off

Deleting entities from Projects
===============================

.. vale on

To delete an entity from a Project:

* Click the three-dots icon next to the entity you want to remove to open the Options menu.
* Click the **Remove from project** button.
* Confirm the removal.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Click the three-dots icon next to the entity you want to remove.
#. Click the **Remove from project** button.
#. Confirm the removal.

```

.. image:: images/remove_item_from_project.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Options menu on a Project entity showing the Remove from project action

|

.. vale off

Finding entities by Project
===========================

.. vale on

> To see everything assigned to a Project, open it. From the Projects list, select the Project's name or the entities label in the '# Entities' column. Both open the Project's detail view, where Mautic lists every assigned entity grouped by type. From here, you can also remove entities or add new ones.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To see entities assigned to a Project, open it. From the Projects list, select the Project's name or the entities label in the **# Entities** column. Both open the Project's detail view, where Mautic lists every assigned entity grouped by type. From here, you can also remove entities or add new ones.
```

If you have many Projects, use the search bar at the top of the Projects list to find one quickly:

* Type the Project's name. The search isn't case sensitive.
* Press Enter.

> * Select the Project's name or its entities label to open it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Type the Project's name. The search isn't case sensitive.
#. Press **Enter**.
#. Select the Project's name or its entities label to open it.
```

   :align: center
   :alt: Create new Project screen with Name and Description fields

|

Each Project name must be unique. If you enter a name that's already in use, Mautic displays 'A project with this name already exists.' and asks you to choose another.

.. vale off

Editing Projects
================

.. vale on

You can edit a Project's name and description at any time. There are two ways to do this.

From the Projects list:

#. Click the three-dots icon next to the Project you want to edit to open the Options menu.
#. Click **Edit** to open the Edit Project screen.
#. Edit the Project and click **Save** or **Save & Close** to save it.

.. image:: images/edit_project_from_dashboard.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Projects list with the Options menu open and the Edit action highlighted

|

From the Project's detail view:

#. Click the Project name to open its detail view.
#. Click **Edit** at the top to open the Edit Project screen.
#. Edit the Project and click **Save** or **Save & Close** to save it.

.. image:: images/edit_project_from_detail.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Project detail view with the Edit button highlighted at the top

|

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. **From the Projects list:**

   #. Click the three-dots icon next to the Project you want to edit.
   #. Click **Edit** to open the Edit Project screen.
   #. Edit the Project and click **Save** or **Save & Close** to save it.

   .. image:: images/edit_project_from_dashboard.png
      :align: center
      :alt: Projects list with the Options menu open and the Edit action highlighted

   |

#. **From the Project's detail view:**

   #. Click the Project name to open its detail view.
   #. Click **Edit** at the top to open the Edit Project screen.
   #. Edit the Project and click **Save** or **Save & Close** to save it.

   .. image:: images/edit_project_from_detail.png
      :align: center
      :alt: Project detail view with the Edit button highlighted at the top

   |

```

.. vale off

Deleting Projects
=================

.. vale on

There are two ways to delete Projects.

To delete one or more Projects at once:

#. Select the checkbox of the Projects you want to delete. Selecting a checkbox automatically opens a blue banner on top of the table.
#. Click **Delete selected**.
#. Confirm the deletion.

.. image:: images/delete_selected_projects.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Projects list with two Projects selected and the Delete selected banner

|

To delete a single Project:

#. Click the three-dots icon next to the Project you want to delete to open the Options menu.
#. Select **Delete**.
#. Confirm the deletion.

.. image:: images/delete_single_project.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Projects list with the Options menu open and the Delete action highlighted

|

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. **To delete one or more Projects at once:**

   #. Select the checkbox of the Projects you want to delete. Selecting a checkbox automatically opens a blue banner on top of the table.
   #. Click **Delete selected**.
   #. Confirm the deletion.

   .. image:: images/delete_selected_projects.png
      :align: center
      :alt: Projects list with two Projects selected and the Delete selected banner

   |

#. **To delete a single Project:**

   #. Click the three-dots icon next to the Project you want to delete to open the Options menu.
   #. Select **Delete**.
   #. Confirm the deletion.

   .. image:: images/delete_single_project.png
      :align: center
      :alt: Projects list with the Options menu open and the Delete action highlighted

   |

```

   |

   .. image:: images/assign_project_from_email.png
      :align: center
      :alt: Email edit view with the Projects field used to assign the Email to a Project

   |

#. **From the Project**:

   #. Open a Project and select **Add Entities to Project**.

      |

      .. image:: images/add_entities_to_project_button.png
         :align: center
         :alt: Project detail view highlighting the Add Entities to Project button

      |

   #. Choose the type of entity you want to add.
   #. Select the entity you want to add to the Project.

.. vale off

Deleting entities from Projects
===============================

.. vale on

To delete an entity from a Project:

#. Click the three-dots icon next to the entity you want to remove.
#. Click the **Remove from project** button.
#. Confirm the removal.

.. image:: images/remove_item_from_project.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Options menu on a Project entity showing the Remove from project action

|

.. vale off

Finding entities by Project
===========================

.. vale on

> To see entities assigned to a Project, open it. From the Projects list, select the Project's name or the entities label in the **# Entities** column. Both open the Project's detail view, where Mautic lists every assigned entity grouped by type. From here, you can also remove entities or add new ones.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To see entities assigned to a Project, go to the Project dashboard. From the Projects list, select the Project's name or the entities label in the **# Entities** column. Both open the Project's detail view, where Mautic lists every assigned entity grouped by type. From here, you can also remove entities or add new ones.
```

If you have many Projects, use the search bar at the top of the Projects list to find one quickly:

> #. Type the Project's name. The search isn't case sensitive.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Type the Project's name.
```

#. Press **Enter**.
#. Select the Project's name or its entities label to open it.

.. image:: images/search_projects_list.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Projects list with a Project name typed in the search bar and the entities label highlighted

|

.. vale off

Permissions
***********

.. vale on

> Projects use their own permission set, which you can grant per Role. To configure these permissions, go to **Settings** > **Roles**, open or create a Role, and find the **Project permissions** section. Alongside the standard View, Edit, Create, Delete, and Full permissions, there's a separate **Associate with other entities** permission that controls whether a User can attach entities to and detach entities from Projects. A User needs this permission to use the Projects field on an entity or the add and remove actions on a Project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Projects use their own permission set, which you can grant per Role. To configure these permissions:

#. Go to **Settings** > **Roles**
#. Open or create a Role
#. Find the **Project permissions** section.

Alongside the standard **View**, **Edit**, **Create**, **Delete**, and **Full permissions**, there's a separate **Associate with other entities** permission that controls whether a User can attach entities to and detach entities from Projects. A User needs this permission to use the Projects field on an entity or the add and remove actions on a Project.
```

.. vale off

Projects
########

.. vale on

Projects give you one place to group everything that belongs to a single marketing initiative. Instead of hunting for the Campaigns, Emails, Segments, and other entities behind a launch, you assign them all to a Project and manage them together. A Project works like a folder that spans entity types, so you can see how the pieces of an initiative fit together and find related entities quickly.

> You can assign many entity types to a Project, including Asset, Campaign, Company, Dynamic Content, Email, Focus Item, Form, Landing Page, Marketing Message, Point, Point Trigger, Segment, Stage, and Text message.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can assign many entity types to a Project, including:

* Asset
* Campaign
* Company
* Dynamic Content
* Email
* Focus Item
* Form
* Landing Page
* Marketing Message
* Point
* Point Trigger
* Segment
* Stage
* Text message
```

   #. Edit the Project and click **Save** or **Save & Close** to save it.

   .. image:: images/edit_project_from_dashboard.png
      :align: center
      :alt: Projects list with the Options menu open and the Edit action highlighted

   |

#. **From the Project's detail view:**

   #. Click the Project name to open its detail view.
   #. Click **Edit** at the top to open the Edit Project screen.
   #. Edit the Project and click **Save** or **Save & Close** to save it.

   .. image:: images/edit_project_from_detail.png
      :align: center
      :alt: Project detail view with the Edit button highlighted at the top

   |

.. vale off

Deleting Projects
=================

.. vale on

There are two ways to delete Projects.

#. **To delete one or more Projects at once:**

   #. Select the checkbox of the Projects you want to delete. Selecting a checkbox automatically opens a blue banner on top of the table.
   #. Click **Delete selected**.
   #. Confirm the deletion.

   .. image:: images/delete_selected_projects.png
      :align: center
      :alt: Projects list with two Projects selected and the Delete selected banner

   |

#. **To delete a single Project:**

>    #. Click the three-dots icon next to the Project you want to delete to open the Options menu.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   #. Click the three-dots icon next to the Project you want to delete.
```

      |

   #. Choose the type of entity you want to add.
   #. Select the entity you want to add to the Project.

.. vale off

Deleting entities from Projects
===============================

.. vale on

To delete an entity from a Project:

#. Click the three-dots icon next to the entity you want to remove.
#. Click the **Remove from project** button.
#. Confirm the removal.

.. image:: images/remove_item_from_project.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Options menu on a Project entity showing the Remove from project action

|

.. vale off

Finding entities by Project
===========================

.. vale on

To see entities assigned to a Project, go to the Project dashboard. From the Projects list, select the Project's name or the entities label in the **# Entities** column. Both open the Project's detail view, where Mautic lists every assigned entity grouped by type. From here, you can also remove entities or add new ones.

If you have many Projects, use the search bar at the top of the Projects list to find one quickly:

#. Type the Project's name.
#. Press **Enter**.
#. Select the Project's name or its entities label to open it.

> .. image:: images/search_projects_list.png

Reviewer: Replace the image with this one:

<img width="2043" height="772" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/412bfbb6-06bd-49d6-bec2-81907c47e8ae" />

.. vale off

Projects
########

.. vale on

Projects give you one place to group everything that belongs to a single marketing initiative. Instead of hunting for the Campaigns, Emails, Segments, and other entities behind a launch, you assign them all to a Project and manage them together. A Project works like a folder that spans entity types, so you can see how the pieces of an initiative fit together and find related entities quickly.

You can assign many entity types to a Project, including:

* Asset
* Campaign
* Company
* Dynamic Content
* Email
* Focus Item
* Form
* Landing Page
* Marketing Message
* Point
* Point Trigger
* Segment
* Stage

> * Text message

Reviewer: There's a couple of things:

- I think we can link the sections here for easy navigation rather than finding the sections whenever users need them.
- Remove the Point Trigger. Project can be set in both Point's "Manage Action" and "Manage Trigger".
- Add plurals where applicable to follow how they appear on UI.

 
```suggestion
* Assets
* Campaigns
* Companies
* Dynamic Web Content
* Emails
* Focus Items
* Forms
* Landing Pages
* Marketing Messages
* Points
* Segments
* Stages
* Text messages
```

.. image:: images/remove_item_from_project.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Options menu on a Project entity showing the Remove from project action

|

.. vale off

Finding entities by Project
===========================

.. vale on

To see entities assigned to a Project, go to the Project dashboard. From the Projects list, select the Project's name or the entities label in the **# Entities** column. Both open the Project's detail view, where Mautic lists every assigned entity grouped by type. From here, you can also remove entities or add new ones.

If you have many Projects, use the search bar at the top of the Projects list to find one quickly:

#. Type the Project's name.
#. Press **Enter**.
#. Select the Project's name or its entities label to open it.

.. image:: images/search_projects_list.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Projects list with a Project name typed in the search bar and the entities label highlighted

|

.. vale off

Permissions
***********

.. vale on

Projects use their own permission set, which you can grant per Role. To configure these permissions:

#. Go to **Settings** > **Roles**
#. Open or create a Role
#. Find the **Project permissions** section.

> Alongside the standard **View**, **Edit**, **Create**, **Delete**, and **Full permissions**, there's a separate **Associate with other entities** permission that controls whether a User can attach entities to and detach entities from Projects. A User needs this permission to use the Projects field on an entity or the add and remove actions on a Project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Alongside the standard **View**, **Edit**, **Create**, **Delete**, and **Full** permissions, there's a separate **Associate with other entities** permission that controls whether a User can attach entities to and detach entities from Projects. A User needs this permission to use the Projects field on an entity or the add and remove actions on a Project.
```

.. vale off

Projects
########

.. vale on

Projects give you one place to group everything that belongs to a single marketing initiative. Instead of hunting for the Campaigns, Emails, Segments, and other items behind a launch, you assign them all to a Project and manage them together. A Project works like a folder that spans item types, so you can see how the pieces of an initiative fit together and find related items quickly.

> You can assign many item types to a Project, including Asset, Campaign, Company, Dynamic Content, Email, Focus Item, Form, Landing Page, Marketing Message, Point, Point Trigger, Segment, Stage, and Text message.

Author: The assignable item types are the entities using `ProjectTrait`, discovered by `ProjectEntityLoaderService` in the 7.x/7.2 `ProjectBundle` (same 14 types as 7.1).

Source: https://github.com/mautic/mautic/blob/7.x/app/bundles/ProjectBundle/Service/ProjectEntityLoaderService.php

.. vale off

Creating and managing Projects

> ******************************

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Managing Projects
*****************
```

.. vale on

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Projects overview
*****************
```

> To open the Projects list, select Projects in the left main menu. From here you can create a new Project, open an existing one, and delete Projects you no longer need. The list shows each Project along with the number of items assigned to it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To open the Projects list, select Projects in the left main menu. From here, you can create a new Project, open an existing one, and delete Projects you no longer need. The list shows each Project along with the number of items assigned to it.
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

.. vale off

Creating Projects
=================

.. vale on
```

> To create a Project, select New, then give it a name and an optional description. Each Project name must be unique. If you enter a name that's already in use, Mautic displays 'A project with this name already exists.' and asks you to choose another.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**To create a Project:**

* Select **New**.
* Give it a name and an optional description.

Each Project name must be unique. If you enter a name that's already in use, Mautic displays 'A project with this name already exists.' and asks you to choose another.
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

.. vale off

Deleting Projects
=================

.. vale on

```

> To delete one or more Projects, select them in the list and choose Delete. Deleting a Project removes the references to it from every assigned item, but it doesn't delete the items themselves.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**To delete one or more Projects:** 

* Select the checkbox of the Projects you want to delete. Selecting a checkbox automatically opens a blue banner on top of the table.
* Click **Delete selected**. 

Deleting a Project removes the references to it from every assigned item, but it doesn't delete the items themselves.
```

.. vale off

Assigning items to a Project

> ****************************

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Assigning items to a Project
============================
```

.. vale on

There are two ways to assign items to a Project.

> * **From the item** - When you create or edit a supported item, such as an Email or a Campaign, use the Projects field to assign it to one or more Projects. If you have permission to create Projects, you can also type a new name in this field and select 'Hit enter to create' to make a new Project on the spot.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **From the item** - When you create or edit a supported item, such as an Email or a Campaign, use the Projects field to assign it to one or more Projects. If you have permission to create Projects, you can also type a new name in this field and select **Hit enter to create** to make a new Project on the spot.
```

> * **From the Project** - Open a Project and select 'Add new to project'. Choose the type of item you want to add, then select the items from the list. You can add an optional note to describe the assignment. To detach an item, select 'Remove from project' next to it.

Reviewer: Please investigate the codebase to confirm the content suggestion. I'm suggesting this based on what I see on UI.

```suggestion
* **From the Project**:

  #. Open a Project and select **Add Entities to Project**.
  #. Choose the type of item you want to add.
  #. Select the item you want to add to the project.
```

> 

Reviewer: Add a brief intro before the instructions.

```suggestion
.. vale off

Deleting items from Projects
============================

.. vale on

To delete an item form a Project:
  
  * Click the three-dots icon next to the entity you want to remove to open the Options menu.
  * Click the **Remove from project** button.
  * Confirm the removal.
```

.. vale off

Finding items by Project

> ************************

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finding items by Project
========================
```

.. vale on

> Use the ``project`` search command to filter any supported list down to the items in a Project. In the search box, enter ``project:name`` to show only the items assigned to that Project. For example, ``project:"Summer Launch"`` returns every item assigned to the 'Summer Launch' Project.

Author: UI labels ('Hit enter to create', 'Add new to project', 'Remove from project'), the Projects menu item, and the `project` search command are taken verbatim from `messages.ini` in the 7.x/7.2 `ProjectBundle`.

Source: https://github.com/mautic/mautic/blob/7.x/app/bundles/ProjectBundle/Translations/en_US/messages.ini

.. vale off

Permissions
***********

.. vale on

> Projects use their own permission set, which you can grant per Role under the 'Project permissions' section. Alongside the standard View, Edit, Create, Delete, and Full permissions, there's a separate 'Associate with other entities' permission that controls whether a User can attach items to and detach items from Projects. A User needs this permission to use the Projects field on an item or the add and remove actions on a Project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Projects use their own permission set, which you can grant per Role under the **Project permissions** section. Alongside the standard View, Edit, Create, Delete, and Full permissions, there's a separate **Associate with other entities** permission that controls whether a User can attach items to and detach items from Projects. A User needs this permission to use the Projects field on an item or the add and remove actions on a Project.
```
